---
title: "Model Collaboration at Network Edge: Feature-Large Models for Real-Time IoT Communications"
collection: publications
category: journal
permalink: /publication/2025-05-15-iotj
excerpt: ''
date: 2025-05-15
venue: 'IEEE Internet of Things Journal'
authors: "Xinbo Yu, Shuhang Zhang, Hongliang Zhang, Lingyang Song"
paperurl: 'https://ZephyrYolo.github.io/files/iotj1.pdf'
---
The growth of the Internet of Things (IoT) has
reshaped the way devices, systems, and applications connect,
leading to an enormous surge in data generation across various
domains. This expansion, paired with the exponential increase
in IoT devices, requires advanced data analysis capabilities to
manage the multimodal sensory data collected by the massive
IoT devices in real time, such as sensor outputs, visual data,
audios, and videos. To address this challenge, large generative
artificial intelligent (AI) models are designed, showing promise
in processing multimodal data. However, deploying these models
on IoT devices is constrained by limited computational power,
memory, and energy resources, preventing full realization of
their potential for real-time IoT systems. To address these
limitations, we propose an innovative end-edge collaborative
model framework between end nodes and edge servers, designed
to balance computational load and optimize resource use. This
approach transmits both extracted features and residual mapping
data from end nodes to edge servers, allowing for spectrum
efficient data handling across the network. Our work formulates
an optimization strategy to enhance mean average precision
(mAP) by adjusting task distribution, bandwidth, and data quantization in response to real-time network and device conditions.
Comprehensive simulations demonstrate the proposed approach’s
superiority over conventional centralized edge model computing
and distributed end model computing frameworks, achieving
enhanced efficiency across various communication rates in real
time.
